---
title: "Letter to the Church in America"
excerpt: "If any of the apostles were to write a letter to the American Church today, what would it look like?"
image: 
  path: /images/broken-down-church.webp
  caption: "Photo from [Church of Christ, Borger](https://churchofchristborger.com/2020/01/07/4-signs-of-a-dead-church/)"
last_modified_at: 2023-02-22T15:24:00-05:00
categories:
  - Christianity
tags: 
  - sin
  - preachers
  - the Church
  - wickedness
---

{% include toc %}

## Intro
It's not a new thought for a Christian to think what a "*Letter to the American Church*" would look like. This fictional letter from one of the apostles written to America today might not be the most edifying of letters. In fact, I would suggest it to be quite the opposite. Unfortunately, we will never know just what this letter would look like. However, using Scripture we can construct the letter and see what certain sections might look like within this fictional letter and apply it to the American Church today. 

## The Letter's Major Themes
### A Culture of Offense
Look at America today and you'll notice one thing: everything offends everyone. From Cancel Culture to censorship of those with the only crime of having a different view than the hive-mind, it seems the old adage, *sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me* has been long since forgotten. We live a culture of self-satisfaction and self-gratification; very much so a *me-before-thee* culture. Self-pleasure through sexual immorality, drunkenness, drug addiction--the American culture has so readily accepted a culture of sin, depravity, and debauchery that one of offense was only natural to follow. Unfortunately, since Americans today are too weak-minded and choose to be offended rather than controlling their own emotions, they in turn choose to be offended by the truth. I can't help but think of Paul's words in Galatians 4:16 and how they apply *heavily* to American culture today. Paul said, "*Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?*" The overwhelming theme of the letter to the American "Church" would certainly be one of offending the offended. 

### The State of the Church
Notice my use of quotations around the word `Church` in the previous section. Sadly, another major theme of the letter would revolve around the state of the Church. We live in a nation of "Cafeteria Christianity" where most Christians pick and choose what they want to believe. Church-goers twist Scripture to fit their sinful behavior so they can justify living as *the old man* (Ephesians 4:19-24). There's no repentance. There's no getting on their knees and crying out to God. There's no loving one another. There's no fruit of the Spirit (Galatians 5:22-23). There's no turning from wickedness, only justifying it. There's no forgiveness, only expecting to be forgiven in return. There's no love, respect, and reverence for God, only attempts to out-sin His grace. There's no fear of God, only manipulating and abusing His character. There's no reading their Bibles, only allowing it to serve as a collector for dust. And there's no repulsion of sin, only advocating for it. The "Church" has been so far removed from Biblical principles that they call people false teachers who preach against sin and who preach in favor of living a changed and set-apart life for God. It's because the Church in America turned away from sound doctrine, turned their ears away from the truth, and heaped to themselves false teachers who were willing to give them what they wanted to hear (2nd Timothy 4:3-4). We, as a nation, need to wake up. We, as a Church, need to get right with God. If the Church doesn't take a stance against the filth, corruption, and wickedness going on in America, then who will? It certainly isn't going to be the Church in its present state. But how could they take a stance if they're being preached to from weak cowards who do anything but preach from the Bible? And when they do preach from the Bible, it's only twisting the Scripture.

### The State of Preachers
Today's common "preacher" teaches a weak, watered-down version of Christianity which only appeals to those looking to "*live their best life now*." They don't care to tell their churchgoers about sin, death, and hell; no, that doesn't bring money into the pulpits. Rather, preachers today preach garbage such as "health and wealth" and all other forms of false gospels that draw in the masses. Couple that with the pure cowardice in their stance against sin and you have the recipe for the utter disaster of what the Church has become today. Alternatively, the Church is openly accepting sin and even has gay and transgender preachers--and this is becoming increasingly more common. If today's preachers aren't advocating for the sin of homosexuality in the pulpits, then they're guilty of being homosexuals themselves. And for those preachers who *do* take a stance against it, they're demonized, silenced, and even shunned by other "Christians." When did preachers take such a complete 180-degree turn away from the Word of God? At what point in the Church's history was it acceptable to have gay and transgender ministers? 

**Accepting Homosexuality and Transgenderism**<br>
But that's exactly what we have today. People like [Penny Cost](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UXD5MZ8NoLs), a play (and I would add a blasphemous play at that) on the word "Pentecost," glorifying, accepting, and praising the delusional lifestyle of drag or transgenderism--because it's a lifestyle they are justifying living for themselves. Have we forgotten Scripture such as Isaiah 5:20 which says, "*woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil.*"? When has the Bible ever accepted homosexuality or transgenderism? When have we as Christians ever been commanded to accept sin? Have we forgotten verses such as 1st Corinthians 6:9 which says the effeminate will not inherit the kingdom of God? Or Deuteronomy 22:5 which says that men who dress like women (or vice versa) are an abomination to God? Just because we're living under the New Covenant does not mean God accepts and glories in wicked, disgusting, morally reprehensible, and abominable behavior. What about Romans 1:27? These preachers that accept the homosexual lifestyle, glory in it, or even practice living in it themselves have been given over to a reprobate mind (Romans 1:28). Most preachers in our current age are too cowardly to speak out against this wicked and disgusting behavior. They're too cowardly because they fear that they, too, might be cancelled so they cater to the offended and are willing to accept depravity and wickedness as a result.

**Pro Sin / Anti-Repentance**<br>
Preachers do not teach their congregations about sin and the effects of walking therein. They do not preach repentant lifestyles and walking in the Spirit. Instead, they undermine sin by claiming that "we should love everyone." Loving and accepting are mutually exclusive in the sense of sin. If you truly love someone, know the truth, and hide it from others because you're too scared of their response to your exposing of their sin, that is not love. That is cowardice. If you condone and glory in their sin, attempting to justify it by saying things like, "shouldn't we just love everyone"? That is acceptance. We are commanded to expose sin (Ephesians 5:11) and restore others overtaken in sin (Galatians 6:1). "Well, Jesus loved others and was a friend of sinners..." This sort of wrestling with Scripture is what preachers do today, which causes them to twist it to their own destruction (2nd Peter 3:16). Jesus spoke out against sin and called people out against their sin every chance He got. Remember when Jesus told the adulterous woman to *go, and sin no more* in John 8:11? Jesus handled these situations with grace and mercy, not acceptance. Most preachers today do the opposite of this and are thus causing divisions contrary to what the Word of God teaches; these preachers do not serve the Lord, but their own self (Romans 16:17-18).

### The Acceptance of Sin
America as a nation has gone so deep into sin and is so asleep morally that not only are sinful lifestyles being accepted, but they’re being also praised. If there ever were a letter to the American Church, I believe we could take word-for-word Romans 1:21-32 and apply it to accurately describe America. 

> <u>Romans 1:21-32</u>:<br>
> **21** Because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened.<br>
> **22** Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools,<br>
> **23** And changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping things.<br>
> **24** Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves:<br>
> **25** Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever. Amen.<br>
> **26** For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature:<br>
> **27** And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of their error which was meet.<br>
> **28** And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient;<br>
> **29** Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers,<br>
> **30** Backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,<br>
> **31** Without understanding, covenantbreakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful:<br>
> **32** Who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.

**Verses 21-27** are interesting because look at what most Americans do today--even in the Church. Exactly what's seen here. They don't glorify God, they're not thankful to Him, and they're so prideful that they think they could do a better job than God. So, what do they do? Change God's image and character to fit something that *they* deem worthy of their own worship. They don't agree with the principles set forth in the Bible, so instead they construct their own principles crafted to benefit their own self-righteousness or even justify their sinful and wicked way of living. This is why America is given into *the lusts of their own hearts, dishonoring their bodies between themselves* (through sexual immorality) and given up to *vile affections* that work against nature (through homosexuality). The problem with America isn't Republicans vs Democrats or a Culture War or systemic racism. The problem with America is mentioned here in this very passage: we have turned from God and have been given up serving ourselves through our own wicked imaginations. And we are seeing this very thing unfold right before our own eyes but the Church is too blind to see it.

**Verses 28-32** are the direct result from the previous verses. Look at each sin in detail and tell me that these cannot be applied to America and even summed up in America's culture today. As a nation, America hates God. They don't retain Him in their knowledge, they are filled with all sorts of unrighteousness. We are a culture of sex and promote anything related to sex. It's considered bizarre if you're a virgin and wait for sex until marriage. It's considered odd to not have more than 1 sexual partner before you reach your 20s. It's common to watch porn. We're rebranding terms such as "pedophile" to "MAP," or **M**inor **A**ttracted **P**erson. The Church accepts this garbage because they're not speaking out against it! Most preachers, and I'm more so speaking of those with the biggest crowds and greatest range of influence, are silent on these topics. God Bless America? Why would He? Why would God bless a nation that's filled with all sorts of unrighteousness and promotes wickedness; a nation that despises Him and all that He stands for? That word "filled" used in verse 29 in the Greek is ["plēroō"](https://www.blueletterbible.org/lexicon/g4137/kjv/tr/0-1/), which translates to "filled to the top; filled to the brim." America is filled to the absolute *top* in fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness, envy, murder, debate, deceit, and malignity. America is completely filled to the *brim* as a despiteful, proud, boasting, disobedient, ignorant, implacable, unmerciful people. The Church in America today is rapidly becoming one straight from the pits of hell. If this wasn't enough, I think that final sentence in verse 32 just after the last comma applies the most to the state of America today: *but have pleasure in them that do them*. America pleasures in those that commit the very sins listed in that passage. We call homosexuals and transgenders bold. We stick up for and defend fornicators and those causing deceit. Where is the Church?! God Bless America? God *help* America!

## Conclusion
A letter to the American Church, had it been written by one of the apostles today, would certainly not be one that edifies the Church. Rather, I believe it would be one that admonishes the Church's wicked behavior, exposes their acceptance of sin, and condemns many preachers as false teachers within the Church. The reason for this is due to the state of the Church, the state of preachers within the Church, and the overall acceptance of sin from the American culture. The Church picks and chooses what they want to believe and twists Scripture so they can justify living in their sin. We have chosen weak and cowardly preachers that glorify sin and never speak out against it. These preachers only serve themselves and not the Lord Jesus. Overall, America has fallen deep into sin, depravity, and wickedness that we're normalizing once condemned behavior and even glorying in those that perform such wicked acts. The American Church needs to wake up and get right with God. We have never been in such dire need for a Church revival than at this very moment. Christians often claim certain passages in Hebrews 6:4-6 and Hebrews 10:26-30 are the scariest verses in the Bible but had the "*Letter to the Church in America*" been written, I think this would easily take that crown.
